Video upload design (#5224)
open-edge-platform/training_extensions: application/docs/api.md

| ------ | ------------------------------------- | ------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/api/projects/<id>/pipeline/metrics` | -       | metrics info | Get inference metrics (latency, throughput, ...) |

## Media

| Method   | Path                                              | Payload | Return                | Description                                     |
| -------- |---------------------------------------------------| ------- |-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media`                | -       | list of dataset media | List the dataset media (images and videos)      |
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>`           | -       | dataset media info    | Get info about a dataset media                 |
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/binary`    | -       | binary                | Get the image data of a dataset item (full res) |
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/thumbnail` | -       | binary                | Get the thumbnail of a dataset item             |

> | `POST`   | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media`                | binary  | media info            | Upload an image or a video to the dataset       |

Reviewer: Can you share an example of response for images and videos?

Author: For adding a media (both image and video), we'll use existing schema https://github.com/open-edge-platform/training_extensions/blob/e8e3d4233438d3f7832250a5a00d9afaf181cc23/application/backend/app/api/schemas/dataset_item.py#L52, just rename it to `MediaView`.

Reviewer: Some fields are not applicable though, and some fields may be image- or video- specific. For example:
- `subset` should be removed, or more precisely moved to the dataset item API
- only for videos, the response should also include fps, number of frames, ...

Author: Indeed, for video we need to return fps and number of frames as well, so the entity will be extended. We may keep subset in the output if needed, for video it will has an array with all distinct frames subsets.

Reviewer: >  We may keep subset in the output if needed, for video it will has an array with all distinct frames subsets.

Not needed, the subset only matters for ML tasks, i.e. at the dataset item level. Media don't need it.

| `DELETE` | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>`           | -       | -                     | Delete a dataset media                           |

### Annotations

| Method   | Path                                                | Payload         | Return          | Description                               |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/annotations` | -               | annotation info | Get the annotation/prediction for a media |

> | `POST`   | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/annotations` | annotation info | annotation info | Annotate a media                          |

Reviewer: In the video case, am I right that `<media_id>` refers to the video frame id, i.e. a UUID that uniquely identifies the frame? If so, how does the client get to know the id of a specific frame? Do you return all frame ids in the `GET /media/<video_id>` response (cons: very large response size), or do you have an endpoint to resolve video_id + timestamp to a video_frame_id, or something else?

Author: Not really, when we add the annotation to a video frame, it's not extracted yet. Therefore there is no media_id yet.
In this case client passes video's `media_id` and frame timestamp. Backend extracts video frame binary, stores it to file system and then adds record to both `media` and `video_frame` tables.

Reviewer: Okay, so if I understand correctly, only the following entities have a `media_id` (UUID):
- images
- videos
- annotated (extracted) video frames

while unannotated video frames don't have an id. I'm not against this idea, but we have to consider possible inconsistencies/non-orthogonal behaviors. For example, to annotate a video frame, you propose something like `POST /media/<video_id>/annotations?timestamp=<ts>`, which means that:
- The annotation endpoint must generate an id (media_id) for the video frame, but only if it's a newly annotated frame. It doesn't for images, or previously annotated frames. In other words, the responsibility of creating media entities (records with media_id) is spread across the media upload and the annotation endpoints.
- The annotation endpoint must return the media id; not a big deal, but it's one more API change.
- There are potentially two ways to get/update the annotation of an already annotated frame:
  -  `GET/POST /media/<video_id>/annotations?timestamp=<ts>`
  - `GET/POST /media/<video_frame_id>/annotations`
  We can disallow the latter, but then I wonder if there is any value at all in assigning a media_id to video frames. 

Potentially, the API could still work without ever assigning a UUID to video frames, by relying on the image/video UUID as `media_id` plus an optional query parameter `timestamp` that discriminate between videos and video frames. What do you think?

Author: Yes right, images, videos and vide frames will have `media_id`.

I think we need to store additionally information about the frame, like resolution, format. We might want for example to resize frames used in dataset, then the resolution will differ from video.
Then frame concept fits perfectly into media table, and then we need to generate a media_id for it.
We can support two was to identify video frame:
1. Using media_id of the video frame
2. Using media_id of the parent video + timestamp.

Then all the endpoints which operate with media will support both options.

| `GET`  | `/api/projects/<id>/pipeline/metrics` | -       | metrics info | Get inference metrics (latency, throughput, ...) |

## Media

| Method   | Path                                              | Payload | Return                         | Description                                     |
| -------- |---------------------------------------------------| ------- |--------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media`                | -       | list of dataset media          | List the dataset media (images and videos)      |
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>`           | -       | dataset media info             | Get info about a dataset media                  |
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/frames`    | -       | list of annotated video frames | List the annotated video frames                  |
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/binary`    | -       | binary                         | Get the image data of a dataset item (full res) |

> | `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/thumbnail` | -       | binary                         | Get the thumbnail of a dataset item             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/binary`    | -       | binary                         | Get the image data of a media (full res) |
| `GET`    | `/api/projects/<id>/dataset/media/<id>/thumbnail` | -       | binary                         | Get the thumbnail of a media             |
```
